Now it's time to flex your critical evaluation skills. Read the following 
descriptions of an experiment and its analysis, identify the flaws in each, 
and describe what you would do to correct them.

The Sith Lords are concerned that their recruiting slogan, "Give In to Your 
Anger," isn't very effective. Darth Vader develops an alternative slogan, 
"Together We Can Rule the Galaxy." They compare the slogans on two groups of 
50 captured droids each. In one group, Emperor Palpatine delivers the "Anger" 
slogan. In the other, Darth Vader presents the "Together" slogan. 20 droids 
convert to the Dark Side after hearing Palpatine's slogan, while only 5 
droids convert after hearing Vader's. The Sith's data scientist concludes 
that "Anger" is a more effective slogan and should continue to be used.

Ans: The flaw in this experiment is that the message is delivered by two different
people. The difference between the two outcomes could be due to the way the 
droids feel about the deliverer. To correct this, the two deliverers should
each communicate each of the two messages to two sets of droids, i.e. 
Darth Vader: 50% old slogan, 50% new slogan. Palpatine: 50% old slogan, 50% 
new slogan.
OR: One person delivers both messages.

In the past, the Jedi have had difficulty with public relations. They send two 
envoys, Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu, to four friendly and four unfriendly 
planets respectively, with the goal of promoting favorable feelings toward the 
Jedi. Upon their return, the envoys learn that Jar Jar was much more effective 
than Windu: Over 75% of the people surveyed said their attitudes had become 
more favorable after speaking with Jar Jar, while only 65% said their attitudes 
had become more favorable after speaking with Windu. This makes Windu angry, 
because he is sure that he had a better success rate than Jar Jar on every planet. 
The Jedi choose Jar Jar to be their representative in the future. 

Ans: The experiment is biased by the fact that the reps were sent to two different 
groups with differing initial feelings towards the Jedi. The difference between the 
results could be a result of this, rather than a difference in their respective
abilities as a rep. The experiment can be redesigned so that the favorable and
unfavorable planets are divided equally between the two reps.

A company with work sites in five different countries has sent you data on employee 
satisfaction rates for workers in Human Resources and workers in Information 
Technology. Most HR workers are concentrated in three of the countries, while IT 
workers are equally distributed across worksites. The company requests a report on 
satisfaction for each job type. You calculate average job satisfaction for HR and 
for IT and present the report.

Ans: Overall satisfaction between the two disciplines could be an artifact of 
something particularly good or bad in the two countries where there is no HR.
The experiment should be done either without those two countries, or two separate
studies: one with only the three common countries, and the other just with the 
two countries where there is only IT. This could be a good control/ comparison
point.

When people install the Happy Days Fitness Tracker app, they are asked to "opt in" 
to a data collection scheme where their level of physical activity data is 
automatically sent to the company for product research purposes. During your 
interview with the company, they tell you that the app is very effective because 
after installing the app, the data show that people's activity levels rise steadily.

Ans: The people under consideration have 'self-selected' by opting into the study, and 
thus could be the ones more likely to be enthusiastic about fitness. The
increase could also be due to the placebo effect of having a 'shiny new toy.'
To be statistically valid, the study has to have its subjects compared against a 
control group of users who are selected rather than having opted in.

To prevent cheating, a teacher writes three versions of a test. She stacks the 
three versions together, first all copies of Version A, then all copies of Version 
B, then all copies of Version C. As students arrive for the exam, each student 
takes a test. When grading the test, the teacher finds that students who took 
Version B scored higher than students who took either Version A or Version C. She 
concludes from this that Version B is easier, and discards it.

The early arrivers (i.e. those who pick up Version A) could be students who are 
struggling with the material and perhaps arrived early to study some more or help
one another before the test. The later arrivers may be the less conscientious students
who may not care so much about how they do in the test, so their score reflect this.
The study should be redone such that the papers are collated, i.e. stacked 
A,B,C,A,B,C instead of AAAAAA, BBBBBB, etc. This would remove the effect of the timing
of a student's arrival. Also, the teacher may have exhibited some bias upon seeing some
of the early results of the experiment. The test would have been better had she not 
known which version was which when marking papers.